Vendor: add setup instructions and explain constraints (#35)
packagist/private-packagist-docs: docs/setup-vendor.md

# Private Packagist for Vendors: Using Private Packages in Customer Projects

Using Private Packagist for Vendors, your customers can install packages with Composer using a unique URL and an authentication token. You can create customers and manage their package access on the vendor page in your organization.

Customers can use your packages in either an existing or a new Composer project.

## Setting up a customer in Private Packagist

You can manage your customers and grant them access to packages on the vendor page in Private Packagist.
To create your first customer click on "Create Customer" and fill out the form on the next page.

> * Customer short name: the name will be used in the Composer repository URL and the web UI URL where your customer sees packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Customer short name: The short name will be used in the Composer repository URL and the web UI URL where your customer sees packages
```

they have access to and can download archives. Please be aware that changing the short name will change the web UI URL and
the Composer repository URL and will therefore break existing Composer projects referring to the current URL.

> * Minimum accesible stability: the setting allows you to limit which versions of a package a customer has access to. More about that in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Minimum accesible stability: This setting allows you to limit which versions of a package a customer has access to. More about that in the
```

["Limit package access by minimum stability"](#limit-package-access-by-minimum-stability) section. 

> * Deliver source code URLs to customer through Composer: by default, Private Packagist removes source URLs for all packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deliver source code URLs to customers through Composer: By default, Private Packagist removes source URLs for all packages
```

assigned to a customer, e.g. for a git repository the URL to clone the repository, and customers are only able to install
packages as archives. If your customer has access to your repositories and you want them to be able to install

> packages from source e.g. via git clone then you can enable the source code URL delivery to customers through Composer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
packages from source, e.g. via git clone, then you can enable the source code URL delivery to customers through Composer.
```

> 

Author: removed

Customers can use your packages in either an existing or a new Composer project.

## Setting up a customer in Private Packagist

You can manage your customers and grant them access to packages on the vendor page in Private Packagist.
To create your first customer click on "Create Customer" and fill out the form on the next page.

The customer's short name will be used in the Composer repository URL and the web UI URL where your customer sees packages

> they have access to and can download archives. Please be aware that changing the URL will change the web UI URL and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they have access to and can download archives. Please be aware that changing the short name will change the web UI URL and
```

> the Composer repository URL and will therefore break existing Composer projects. The minimum accesible stability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Composer repository URL and will therefore break existing Composer projects refering to the current URL. The minimum accesible stability
```

setting allows you to limit which versions of a package a customer has access to. More about that in the
["Limit package access by minimum stability"](#limit-package-access-by-minimum-stability) section. You can also
enable package source URLs for a customer. By default, Private Packagist removes source URLs for all packages
assigned to a customer, e.g. for a git repository the URL to clone the repository, and customers are only able to install
packages as archives. If your customer has access to your repositories and you want them to be able to install

> packages from source e.g. via git clone then you can enable the source code URL delivery to customers through Composer.

Reviewer: Can you refactor this long paragraph into a list of the form options with an explanation each?

Author: done

> Customers can also be created via our API using our [API client](https://github.com/packagist/private-packagist-api-client) with the following code snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also create customers using our API through the [API client](https://github.com/packagist/private-packagist-api-client) with the following code snippet:
```

```
<?php

require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

$client = new \PrivatePackagist\ApiClient\Client();
$client->authenticate('api-token', 'api-secret');

> $customer = $client->customers()->create('Customer', false, 'customer', 'beta');

Reviewer: maybe at least leave comments for what each value is, so it's clear what e.g. the "false" means here?

Author: added

```

## Giving a customer access to a package 

> The packages section of a customer allows you to manage which packages and which versions of a package a customer has access to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The packages section of a customer allows you to manage which packages and which versions of these packages a customer has access to.
```

$customerId = 42;

$client = new \PrivatePackagist\ApiClient\Client();
$client->authenticate('api-token', 'api-secret');
$packages = [
    [
        'name' => 'acme/website',
        'versionConstraint' => '^1.0 | ^2.0', // optional version constraint to limit updates the customer receives
        'expirationDate' => (new \DateTime())->add(new \DateInterval('P1Y'))->format('c'), // optional expiration date to limit updates the customer receives
        'minimumAccessibleStability' => 'beta', // optional stability to restrict customers to specific package version stabilities like alpha, beta, or RC
    ],
];
$packages = $client->customers()->addOrEditPackages($customerId, $packages);
```

Private Packagist provides different ways on how you can limit which versions your customers have access to. If multiple
limits are set then only versions that match all the constraints will be available to the customer. You can also choose
to grant a customer access to all versions.

### Limit package access by minimum stability

By default, your customers will have access to all versions of a package. For VCS repositories this includes all branches.

> By Setting a minimum accessible stability you can prevent customers from having access to versions that are not ready for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting a minimum accessible stability you can prevent customers from having access to versions that are not ready for
```

production use. Composer recognizes the following [stabilities](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/versions.md#stabilities)
(in order of stability): dev, alpha, beta, RC, and stable. If you have a VCS repository with the following versions:
`dev-main`, `dev-feature-1`, `1.0-a1`, `1.0-b1`, `1.0-rc1` and `1.0` then setting the minimum stability to `RC` will only

> allow versions `1.0-rc1` and `1.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow the customer to install versions `1.0-rc1` and `1.0`.
```

Instead of setting this for every individual package you can also set this once for the customer which then gets applied
to all packages the customer has access to unless otherwise specified. 

### Limit package access by version number

The version number limit allows you to use the same [version constraints](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/versions.md#writing-version-constraints)
that you are already familiar with from your composer.json files.

This is useful if your customers buy a package license for `acme/library` version 1 and receive maintenance updates for

> that version but will have to purchase a new license for a future version 2 of the package. You can set this up with the
> constraint `^1.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that version but will have to purchase a new license for a future version 2 of the package. You can achieve this by
restricting them to releases of the major version 1 with the constraint `^1.0`.
```

### Limit package access by publication date

> If enabled then the customer will only have receive access to versions that were released before the date set. However,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If enabled then the customer will only receive access to versions that were or will be released before the date set. However,
```

> they do keep having access to those versions even after that date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they keep access to those versions beyond the specified date. If you want to remove their access even to past versions, you need do delete the package from their list entirely.
```
